Add doc for Longhorn PVC ownership and permission (#880)
longhorn/website: content/docs/1.5.5/volumes-and-nodes/pvc-ownership-and-permission.md

---

> title: Longhorn PVC ownership and permission

Author: Thank you. Fixed

weight: 1
---

In Kubernetes, there are 2 types of volume modes for PVC: Filesystem and Block ([link](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/#volume-mode)).

> When a pod defines the security context and requests a Longhorn PVC, Kubernetes will handle the ownership and permission modification for the PVC differently for each type of volume mode.

Author: Thank you. I incorporated part of your suggestion

### Longhorn PVC with Filesystem volume mode

> Because Longhorn CSI driver `csiDriver.spec.fsGroupPolicy` sets to `ReadWriteOnceWithFSType`, Kubelet attempts to change the ownership and permission for Longhorn PVC in the following flow:

Author: Thank you. I incorporated part of your suggestion

> 1. If `pod.spec.securityContext.fsGroup` is non-empty, continue to the next step.
>    Otherwise, Kubelet doesn't attempt to change the ownership and permission for the volume.
> 1. If the PV's `fsType` is defined and the PVC's `accessModes` list contains `ReadWriteOnly`, continue to the next step.
>    Otherwise, Kubelet doesn't attempt to change the ownership and permission for the volume.
> 1. If the `pod.spec.securityContext.fsGroupChangePolicy` is set to `always` or empty:
>   1. Make sure that all processes of the containers inside the pod are part of the supplementary group id `pod.spec.securityContext.fsGroup`
>   1. Any new files created in the volume will be in group id `pod.spec.securityContext.fsGroup`
>   1. Kubelet recursively changes permission and ownership of the volume to have the same group id as `pod.spec.securityContext.fsGroup` everytime when the volume is mounted
> 1. If the `pod.spec.securityContext.fsGroupChangePolicy` is set to `OnRootMismatch`:
>   1. If the root of the volume already has the correct permissions (i.e., belongs to the group id as `pod.spec.securityContext.fsGroup`) , the recursive permission and ownership change will be skipped.
>   1. Otherwise, Kubelet recursively changes permission and ownership of the volume to have the same group id as `pod.spec.securityContext.fsGroup`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Check the supplementary group `pod.spec.securityContext.fsGroup`.

  - *Not empty*: Continue to the next step.
  - *Empty*: The kubelet does not attempt to change the ownership and permissions of the PVC.

1. Check `fsType` (PV) and `accessModes` (PVC).

  - *`fsType` is defined and the `accessModes` list contains `ReadWriteOnly`*: Continue to the next step.
  - *Any other configuration*: The kubelet does not attempt to change the ownership and permissions of the PVC.

1. Check `pod.spec.securityContext.fsGroupChangePolicy`.

  - If the parameter is set to `always` or is empty, the kubelet performs the following actions:

    - Ensures that all processes of all containers within the pod and all new files created in the volume `sec-ctx-vol` are part of the group `pod.spec.securityContext.fsGroup`.
    - Recursively changes ownership and permissions of the PVC to have the same group ID as `pod.spec.securityContext.fsGroup` whenever the volume is mounted.

  - If the parameter is set to `OnRootMismatch`, the kubelet checks if the root of the volume has the correct permissions (in this case, is part of the group `pod.spec.securityContext.fsGroup`) and then performs the following actions:

    - *Correct permissions*: Does not attempt to change the ownership and permissions of the PVC.
    - *Incorrect permissions*: Recursively changes ownership and permissions of the PVC to have the same group ID as `pod.spec.securityContext.fsGroup` whenever the volume is mounted.
```

Reviewer: I restructured this so that conditions and corresponding actions are clearer.

Author: Thank you. I incorporated part of your suggestion

> More references at:
> * https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/security-context/#configure-volume-permission-and-ownership-change-policy-for-pods
> * https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/2131#issuecomment-778897129

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, see [Configure volume permission and ownership change policy for Pods](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/security-context/#configure-volume-permission-and-ownership-change-policy-for-pods) and [Issue #2131](https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/2131#issuecomment-778897129).
```

Author: Thank you. I incorporated part of your suggestion

> ### Longhorn PVC with Block volume mode
> 
> For PVC with Block volume mode, Kubelet never attempts to change the permission and ownership of the block device when making it available inside the container.
> Users must set the correct group id in the `pod.spec.securityContext` for the pod to be able to read/write to the block device or run the container as root.
> 
> By default, Longhorn puts the block device into group id 6 (which is typically associated with the "disk" group by unwritten convention).
> Therefore, pods that use Longhorn PVC in block volume mode must set the group id 6 in the `pod.spec.securityContext` or run as root.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Longhorn PVC with Block Volume Mode

When the PVC volume mode is **Block**, the kubelet never attempts to change the ownership and permissions of the corresponding volume. You must set the correct group ID in the `pod.spec.securityContext` parameter to enable the pod to read and write to the mounted block device or to run the container as root.

The default group ID of block devices in Longhorn is `6`, which is typically associated with the "disk" group. Therefore, pods that use a Longhorn PVC with the **Block** volume mode must either add `supplementalGroups: - 6` to the `securityContext` parameter, or run as root.
```

Author: Thank you. I incorporated part of your suggestion

> For example:
> 1. Pod that sets the group id 6 in the `pod.spec.securityContext`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example:

- Pod with `supplementalGroups: - 6` in the `pod.spec.securityContext` parameter
```

Author: Thank for the suggestion. I think the original version makes more sense.

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
    metadata:
      name: longhorn-block-vol
    spec:
      accessModes:
        - ReadWriteOnce
      volumeMode: Block
      storageClassName: longhorn
      resources:
        requests:
          storage: 2Gi
    ---
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: Pod
    metadata:
      name: block-volume-test
      namespace: default
    spec:
      securityContext:
        runAsGroup: 1000
        runAsNonRoot: true
        runAsUser: 1000
        supplementalGroups:
        - 6
      containers:
        - name: block-volume-test
          image: ubuntu:20.04
          command: ["sleep", "360000"]
          imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
          volumeDevices:
            - devicePath: /dev/longhorn/testblk
              name: block-vol
      volumes:
        - name: block-vol
          persistentVolumeClaim:
            claimName: longhorn-block-vol
    ```

> 1. Pod that run as root

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Pod that runs as root
```

Author: Thank you. Fixed
